About this guide
================

Hopefully, this guide becomes the collection of opinions form many
different people.  Below, you can read about the general plan.

This book is focused on (made with the perspective of) technical or
computational sciences (so far?) - a field where junior academics are
basically advancing along a scientific and technical career path at
the same time.

This guide definitely has come controversial takes in it, relative to
many other guides.  This is by design - there are plenty of other
guides you can find, and there's no need to repeat what's already
known.  rkdarst's position also allows more controversial takes than
most people could make.  In some fields, organizations, or countries,
things are probably much better than is described here.  Hopefully,
this is an example of the worst case and you can see much better
things around you.


Why management?
---------------

Once one becomes a leader, one of their responsibility is to get the
best out of the people they lead.  We often hear horror stories about
management, including the joke "the best manager I've had is one who
did nothing".  Still, working life is difficult, especially in
academia, and *good* management/leadership *is* actually important
both for students and group leaders.


Prologue: Richard Darst
-----------------------

(more prologues will be added for other contributors)

If I've decided to write all this, maybe I should say why I think
anyone should even bother reading what I'm writing, right?

When I started as a manager, not of research students but of research
staff, I put some thought into understanding what my responsibilities
would be.  What I found wasn't very pretty: most researchers/students
I knew didn't have very good managers, I had good supervisors but
perhaps not good managers, and the whole idea of academic management
was vague and unclear.  This leads to catastrophically low
productivity and research output.

Of course, this might be by design: do we want our students and staff
to have the freedom to do what they want and try and fail?  Yes, that
seems like a good idea.  But that doesn't mean they have to be alone
and without good mentoring.  And if we don't put in effort in
advising, the outcome of the academic system only reenforces existing
power structures and inequalities in academia.  The mental health
effects of "try and fail" are everywhere and *a major crisis*.

I'm not a research group leader (professor), but I think that is a
good thing.  Instead, I work as professional university staff
(scientific computing support) and am young enough to still be closely
connected to junior researchers.  In my role as a supporter, I see
(and help with) many of the problems that should be solved at the
group management level, whether they are technical or social.  Since I
have started supervising my own staff, I can connect to best
practices of independent research-type staff.  On top of that, as busy
as I am, I have more time than most group leaders to devote to writing
this.  I won't know everything, but it's open source so others can
improve.

I'm convinced that there is a lot that needs to be better.  Probably,
few people will read this, I'm fully aware that the people who most
need to hear these points probably don't want to (and won't find
this).  Everyone will need to find their own style, but by writing
down some notes hopefully everyone can be helped to find it.  Equally,
by writing things down, students and research staff can also benefit
by being able to understand different management styles and discuss
what they need with their own advisors (or find a properly matched
advisor in the first place).


How it is made
--------------

.. seealso::

   :doc:`contributing`

The intention is that this is an open-source project, with many
different opinions.  Of course, since many things contained in it are
opinions, it is a rather interesting open-source project.  For now,
most of the content is the result of one author, but as time goes on
this page will be changed to reflect reality.  Other contributors can
add their own prologues for this page.

It is best to assume that any good ideas come from other contributors
and any bad ideas come from the initial author rkdarst.

The book is licensed under CC-BY-SA 4.0.


Current status
--------------

This is very much a work in progress and nothing is complete or
proofread.



Credits
-------

The book `The Manager's Path: A Guide for Tech Leaders Navigating
Growth and Change`__ by Camille Fournier served as inspiration for this
guide.  In fact, you could go so far as to say that most of the basic
ideas of this guide come from here, with added commentary and
interpretation for the academic setting.

__ https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/the-managers-path/9781491973882/

The :doc:`credits page <credits>` will list contributors who wish to
be mentioned.
