Roles of a group leader
=======================

As a group leader, you will have many different roles.
Traditionallly, many of these are actually not done by the leader, but
instead are handled by others in the group or the broader
department/university.



Funder
------

First and most obviously, the group leader serves to get funding for
many of their group members.  Plenty of junior researchers have, or
apply for, their own funding, but in the end this often falls to the
research supervisor if there are no other options (at least in some
fields).

Sometimes, projects can be so diverse that the common funding source
is the only thing bringing people together.



Employer
--------

The group leader often serves as the supervisor (from a HR sense) of
the group, as the legal representative of the employer.  HR thinks
this means you set the tasks and responsibilities of the employee
(directing work).  See :doc:`roles-of-a-junior-researcher` for
thoughts on how much this makes sense.

Of course, while an employer *can* direct work, someone who does
this too much would be considered a very bad supervisor.



Scientific advisor
------------------

A group leader usually advises their group in the scientific topics
needed for projects.  This is a usually a pretty clear role and what
group leaders have been trained for - at least more than anything else
on this page.



Research process mentor
-----------------------

A group leader usually advises their group in the process of doing
their projects: how to approach projects, the publication process,
collaborations, and so on.  Group leaders have usually have training
here.



Practical mentor
----------------

There are all types of practical difficulties a young person may have
in life when moving from undergraduate education to something sort-of
like working life.  Young researchers may have few people they can
connect with, especially if they have moved far away.

As an example: at Aalto University (Finland), there are two types of
people: those from Finland, and those not.  Those from Finland have
had everything work perfectly all their life and have plenty of
friends who can help with anything else.  Those not have various
problems and many don't have that support network.  Like it our not,
these questions end up at the group leader, and the group leader
often provides better service than other official support structures
(even if it's just by being understanding of the situation).



Life coach
----------

A junior researcher often doesn't know exactly where they want to go
in their life.  Like it or not, most of the senior people they know
are in academia, and thus those people are the life coaches.



Social activity provider
------------------------

This is not exactly a good situation, but for many people, social
activities are focused around the research group.  A group leader
shouldn't have to take responsibility for this, but sometimes there is
a need of them promoting social activities.  At least they might
encourage their group to provide this...
