Roles of a junior researcher
============================

In order to understand the difficulty of management, we need to look
at the different (and contradictory) roles into which junior researchers
are placed.  This is designed to cover people in the range from
research assistant to PhD student to postdocs.



Student
-------

A student is someone studying to improve their knowledge, often with
their knowledge being evaluated and leading to some sort of recognition.
While not technically true, the joke that postdocs are "super-students
but don't end up with a degree" is a bit too realistic for comfort.

Advantages: it places the emphasis on self-learning and
self-exploration.  A student can really choose their own path.  In
theory, it produces a credential that will assist in the student's
future career - in addition to useful knowledge and skills, of course.

Disadvantages: we can sometimes leave people alone too much to do
their own thing, without providing needed advice and direction when it
would be in their own interest.  Being a student also implies some
sort of evaluation/grading, and we don't like giving negative feedback
to people, so this part can often be lost.  A student needs to be
allowed to fail, otherwise their credentials eventually won't mean
anything.



Employee
--------

An employee works for an employer, and the employer dictates the work,
behavior, tools, working time, and so on.  "Employee vs independent
contractor" is a major point of debate in the current gig economy, so
one can find plenty of information on this topic online [1]_.  Often times,
researchers have far more freedom than an employee would, sometimes
only rarely working with others in the group on projects, deciding
their own tools, and of course working far more hours than HR thinks
you should.

.. [1] For example US Internal Revenue Service guidelines on employee
       vs independent contractor: https://www.irs.gov/taxtopics/tc762

Whatever the case, "employee status" provides the most protection for
labor and is often used as (a part of) the hiring model, even if
someone is a student at the same time.

Sometimes researchers might not actually be employees (in the HR
sense), for example if they have an external grant or are unfunded.
In some cases this can cause problems for them.  You should be aware
of this situation and be proactive about any problems that may come
up.

Advantages: provides a strong, well-defined relationship and good
worker protections.

Disadvantages: This model is actually not accurate in many cases,
where the emphasis is on academic freedom and developing one's own
research program.  HR and legislation, not understanding the true
relationship, may provide a lot of advice that isn't very relevant to
this reality.  The aspect of student evaluation may be
under-emphasized.  Problems may be passed to HR, when really it should
be handled in an academic sense.



Independent contractor
----------------------

An independent contractor decides their own projects, tools,
working methods, and schedule - within a goal defined by the party
contracting them.  This sounds a lot more like most researchers that I
know of.  Especially the concept of bringing your own tools
(techniques you know) and methods (how you approach a problem), which
you are likely to have brought from previous jobs and will keep using
in future ones is quite like a freelancer.  This (and the
"entrepreneur" case below) are especially relevant when the researcher
provides their own funding.

Advantages: We accept the amount of freedom and independence
researchers have, and by accepting that, we can better tune our
management to their (and our) needs.  Researchers build up skills and
tools over time and can easily move around, sharing knowledge.

Disadvantages: If this model was the actual legal relationship, it
would be like running one's own small business which is not a very
stable occupation.  It is harder to run a research group creating
long-term results when everyone can do their own thing, or if they do
focus on a project you want, they might use some incompatible tool
which no one else later can use (un-reproducible research).  It is very
easy to let someone keep doing something unproductive for a very long
time.  Especially when someone provides their own funding, it can be
difficult to provide hard-to-hear advice.



Entrepreneur
------------

Some researchers aim to become group leaders themselves, too.  In
order to do this, you have to practically come up with an idea and
sell it to others in your field, and then sell it to funding agencies.
This is a very, very different skill than what is traditionally
considered part of scientific education.

Advantages: For many people, this level of self-direction (while still
having the protections of an employee) is very appealing.

Disadvantages: there is very little training or support for this.  The
people who can best advance in this system aren't necessarily the best
scientifically, but the best salespeople.  The tricks of the trade are
often learned passively or inherited through ones advisor.  We could
debate conflicts of interest in a university supporting entrepreneurs
creating their own work to take elsewhere.



Early-career worker
-------------------

Let's not forget that, in addition to all of the above, young
researchers are essentially brand new people in working life, even if
their title is student.  In any normal company, there is a transition
period between learning theoretical knowledge during studies and being
a productive employee.  This is a quite hands-on, practical, and
mentorship-based kind of activity.  Academic researchers often miss
this type of period and end up having to learn things by themselves
(since as we'll discuss later, the mentorship often isn't as great as
it should be).

If this role isn't properly developed, a researcher may end up years
later without being ready to take any non-academic job at a level
consistent with their experience.
